---
layout: post
title: "Rails 4"
description: ""
category: 
tags: []
---
{% include JB/setup %}

Rails 4, is on deck. Is your application ready for it?
Big changes afoot. Good ones for the most part. 
---

* ### Rails 4 requires Ruby >= 1.9.3

The biggest change will
be the deprecation of Ruby 1.8.x support. You will have to set your
environment to 1.9.3 or above.

This means not only ensuring your hosting enviornment (heroku,
engineyard, etc) are up to date, but also that your development
environment matches. 

In terminal check the version of your installed ruby
    ruby --version 
You should see 
    ruby-1.9.3-p392
Or if your living on the edge 
    ruby 2.0.0p0
---

* ### Rails 4 is Threadsafe by default.

    Rails threadsafe! before 4 was an option but now its default. 
    
    Threadsafe Rails 

  * Preloads the application 
    setting preload_frameworks, cache_classes, and dependency_loading to
true
  * Stop locking
    allow_concurrency is set to true. This will turn of the rack
middleware Rack::Lock. Which will run requests asynchronously. 

    Unicorn is a concurrent server. Concurrency accepts multiple requests at
a time, distributing the request through workers. In fact in some
modified configurations of unicorn benchmarks show [better
performance](http://rubysnippets.com/2013/04/10/rails-4-live-streaming-versus-node-dot-js/)
then the argued winner of the concurrency arguement nodejs.

    Writing threadsafe code is not as hard as the Java developer
drenched in sweat makes it out to be. 
  
{% highlight ruby %}
require 'thread'
semaphore = Mutex.new

a = Thread.new {
    semaphore.synchronize {
        # access shared resource
    }
}

b = Thread.new {
    semaphore.synchronize {
        # access shared resource
    }
}
{% endhighlight %}
